[Music]
so they cut the cord and seconds later
the man sitting on the lawn chair tied
to a balloon cluster was soaring up
among the clouds this sounds like some
kind of up style fairy tale but believe
it or not this story actually happened
for real in 1982
once upon a time in 1949 to be more
precise a boy named Larry Walters was
born in Los Angeles California he
dreamed of the sky but his dream to be a
US Air Force pilot was not destined to
come true because of his poor eyesight
so Larry became a truck driver and lived
like any other person in San Pedro his
love for the sky and his dream to fly
didn't go away though
Larry remembered an idea that occurred
to him when he was 13 back then he first
saw weather balloons hanging off the
ceiling at a military store the balloons
were staying afloat in the air and young
Larry thought why not take advantage of
that you don't need a pilot's license to
fly helium-filled balloons right so 33
year old Larry decided to bring his
dream to life 20 years later and he
started preparations for his flight to
figure out how many balloons he'd need
for the experiment he had to have done
some calculations the lifting force of
helium is one gram per liter that means
10 litres of helium in a balloon can
lift 10 grams a regular amusement-park
balloon is about 1 foot in diameter and
it can hold 14 litres of helium so it
can lift around 14 grams if you ignore
the weight of the balloon and the string
to lift a person weighing 175 pounds you
need a whopping 5,700 balloons but if
you get 10-foot army surplus store
balloons instead you'd only need like
eight of those to fly Larry was true to
his dream and went for weather balloons
instead together with his
then-girlfriend
he bought 45 weather balloons and helium
tanks he knew it would raise some
questions so to prepare for that he
forged a requisition from film
Studios saying he was an employee and
they needed balloons for a TV commercial
on launch day July 2nd 1982 they filled
the floatation devices with helium
attached them to a lawn chair they named
inspiration one and packed the necessary
supplies some sandwiches a bottle of
soda a camera a CB radio and pellets why
the pellets well Larry planned to reach
the Mojave Desert and shoot out the
balloons to land safely
so lawn chair Larry as he was nicknamed
later strapped on a parachute commanded
his friends to cut the cord tied to his
Jeep and soared into the sky he went way
higher than he planned to 16,000 feet
Larry was moving over Long Beach crossed
Long Beach Airport corridor and finally
floated into Los Angeles International
Airport controlled airspace the wind was
blowing strong in his face and the speed
he was moving wasn't ideal for stopping
Larry was getting nervous and got in
touch with air-traffic control with his
CB radio to inform them of his presence
at least two commercial airplanes also
spotted the traveler and let air-traffic
control and the Federal Aviation
Administration know there was a strange
unidentified flying object in the sky
things were getting out of control
Larry was way higher moving way faster
and going way further than he planned he
wanted to land but he was afraid popping
the balloons would make him lose his
balance and he just fall out of the sky
45 minutes after takeoff he shot out
some of the balloons and started slowly
descending another 45 minutes later he
was on the ground again safe and sound
while there was no damage to the
adventurous traveler whatsoever people
in the surrounding area felt his
presence without knowing he was there
the balloons that got tangled on the
powerlines in Long Beach caused a
massive power outage that lasted 20
minutes though Larry wasn't injured and
made his dream come true
the Welcome Party he got back on
wasn't exactly what he was hoping for
Long Beach authorities arrested him but
soon let him go with a fine of $4,000
for violation of Federal Aviation
Regulations and operating a civil
aircraft for which there is not
currently in effect an airworthiness
certificate the second part was dropped
later because his aircraft was a lawn
chair and it wasn't mentioned in any
legislation so he ended up paying a fine
of $1,500 and became somewhat of a
celebrity in one of his interview some
time later Larry said the flight was
something I had to do I had this dream
for 20 years and if I hadn't done it I
would have ended up in the funny farm
after his beautiful flight lawn chair
Larry appeared on The Tonight Show and
Late Night with David Letterman he was
given the title of at risk survivor at
the 1993 Darwin Awards and the
first-place award from the bonehead Club
of Dallas a San Diego ban pinback
dedicated a song to him named walters
and so did an austin artists egg beau
with Larry Walters in the book all I
really needed to know I learned in
kindergarten a whole section was
dedicated to Larry's flight using it as
a great example of living your dreams
and letting your imagination fly
literally to top it all off there was
even an episode of Spongebob Squarepants
the sponge who could fly inspired by the
story all this made lawn chair Larry so
self-confident he gave up his job as a
truck driver and decided to become a
motivational speaker to inspire other
people to never forget their dreams
unfortunately his lectures weren't a
success and didn't bring him money or
fame maybe it was out of disappointment
or out of love for his biggest fan a
neighborhood boy named Jerry that Larry
parted with his famous chair and gave it
to Jerry some time later the Smithsonian
Institution ask Larry Force flying
apparatus to make it one of their
exhibits he regretted giving up the
chair but what's done can't be undone
Jerry grew up but kept the chair in his
garage with some of the tethers and
water jugs that were originally attached
to it for stability in 2014
Gerry temporarily donated it to the San
Diego Air and Space Museum and it was on
display for everyone to see Larry
Walters may not have become the most
successful motivational speaker but he
sure motivated quite a few people to
follow his example
in fact he inspired a whole
extreme-sport named cluster ballooning
its fans strapped themselves in a
harness and attach themselves to rubber
balloons filled with helium to fly on
July 7th 2007 a gas station owner from
Oregon used 105 large helium balloons
and plastic bags filled with 20 gallons
of water tied to a lawn chair to fly 240
miles
he shot bb's to let some helium out and
land but later came up with a new way of
doing it to make the descent way
smoother a year later he used that
mechanism on his second flight and
traveled in his lawn chair for nine
hours and 12 minutes On January 13 2008
a human rights defender from Brazil went
further with the idea and crossed the
border between two countries Brazil and
Argentina on 600 party balloons filled
with helium and tied to a chair two
years later a traveler from the US
crossed the English Channel in an office
chair going from England to
Dunkirk France over the White Cliffs of
Dover that must have been a scenic four
hour ride for a guy in an office chair
three years later he tried to go
transatlantic yes you heard that right
transatlantic on balloons but the
attempt wasn't a success and he had to
land in Newfoundland
by the way that guy created the house
that was in the up movie for a National
Geographic feature another traveller who
was brave enough to try cluster
ballooning abroad was from England he
flew 15 miles over South Africa on
October 20th 2017 the Guinness Book of
World Records currently features the
longest duration flight by helium
balloons that lasted 13 hours 36 minutes
and 57 seconds an American adventure
flew across North Carolina he was also
the first cluster balloon er to start
his journey during the day and fly
through the knife on 57 balloons so do
you think it's fun or totally crazy to
fly on helium balloons let me know down
in the comments if you learned something
new today then hey give this video a
like share it with a friend but don't go
anywhere just yet especially in a
balloon we have over 2000 cool videos
for you to check out all you have to do
is pick the left or right video click on
it and enjoy stay on the bright side of
life